
                              STAR WARS



                              Episode V

                                   

                       THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK



                         Script adaptation by

                  Lawrence Kasdan and Leigh Brackett

                           from a story by

                             George Lucas



                            LUCASFILM LTD.





                        ----------------------





A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far, away...





   It is a dark time for the Rebellion. Although the Death Star has

been destroyed, Imperial troops have driven the Rebel forces from

their hidden base and pursued them across the galaxy.

   Evading the dreaded Imperial Starfleet, a group of freedom fighters

led by Luke Skywalker has established a new secret base on the remote

ice world of Hoth.

   The evil lord Darth Vader, obsessed with finding young Skywalker,

has dispatched thousands of remote probes into the far reaches of

space...





EXTERIOR: GALAXY -- PLANET HOTH



           A Star Destroyer moves through space, releasing Imperial probe

        robots from its underside. 

           One of these probes zooms toward the planet Hoth and lands

        on its ice-covered surface. An explosion marks the point of

        impact. 



EXTERIOR: HOTH -- METEORITE CRATER -- SNOW PLAIN -- DAY



           A weird mechanical sound rises above the whining of the

        wind. A strange probe robot, with several extended sensors,

        emerges from the smoke-shrouded crater. The ominous mechanical

        probe floats across the snow plain and disappears into the

        distance.



EXTERIOR: PLAIN OF HOTH -- DAY



           A small figure gallops across the windswept ice slope. The

        bundled rider is mounted on a large gray snow lizard, a

        Tauntaun. Curving plumes of snow rise from beneath the

        speeding paws of the two-legged beast.

           The rider gallops up a slope and reins his lizard to a

        stop. Pulling off his protective goggles, Luke Skywalker

        notices something in the sky. He takes a pair of

        electrobinoculars from his utility belt and through them sees

        smoke rising from where the probe robot has crashed.

           The wind whips at Luke's fur-lined cap and he activates a

        comlink transmitter. His Tauntaun shifts and moans nervously

        beneath him.



LUKE: (into comlink) Echo Three to Echo Seven. Han, old buddy, do you

read me?

           After a little static a familiar voice is heard.



HAN: (over comlink) Loud and clear, kid. What's up?



LUKE: (into comlink) Well, I finished my circle. I don't pick up any

life readings.



HAN: (over comlink) There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a

space cruiser. The sensors are placed. I'm going back.



LUKE: (into comlink) Right. I'll see you shortly. There's a meteorite

that hit the ground near here. I want to check it out. It won't take

long.



           Luke clicks off his transmitter and reins back on his

        nervous lizard. He pats the beast on the head to calm it.



LUKE: Hey, steady girl. What's the matter? You smell something?



           Luke takes a small device from his belt and starts to

        adjust it when suddenly a large shadow falls over him from

        behind. He hears a monstrous howl and turns to see an eleven-

        foot-tall shape towering over him. It is a Wampa Ice Creature,

        lunging at him ferociously.



LUKE: Aaargh!



           Luke grabs for his pistol, but is hit flat in the face by a

        huge white claw. He falls unconscious into the snow and in a

        moment the terrified screams of the Tauntaun are cut short by

        the horrible snap of a neck being broken.

           The Wampa Ice Creature grabs Luke by one ankle and drags

        him away across the frozen plain.



EXTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE ENTRANCE -- DAY



           A stalwart figure rides his Tauntaun up to the entrance

        of an enormous ice cave.



INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR DECK



           Rebel troopers rush about unloading supplies and otherwise

        securing their new base. The rider, Han Solo, swings off his

        lizard and pulls off his goggles.

           He walks into the main hangar deck toward the Millennium

        Falcon, which is parked among several fighters. Mechanics, R2

        units, and various other droids hurry about. Han stops at the

        Millennium Falcon where his Wookiee copilot, Chewbacca, is

        welding on a central lifter. Chewie stops his work and lifts

        his face shield, growling an irritated greeting to his boss.



HAN: Chewie!



           The Wookiee grumbles a reply.



HAN: All right, don't lose your temper. I'll come right back and give

you a hand.



           Chewbacca puts his mask back on and returns to his welding

        as Han leaves.



INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- COMMAND CENTER



           A makeshift command center has been set up in a blasted area

        of thick ice. The low-ceilinged room is a beehive of activity.

        Controllers, troops, and droids move about setting up

        electronic equipment and monitoring radar signals.

           General Rieekan straightens up from a console at Han's

        approach.



RIEEKAN: Solo?
